#summary Commercial Support Services.
#labels Phase-Support

== What commercial support services are provided? ==

If you have a `CrashRpt`-related question to be answered in a short period of time or need a bug to be fixed quickly, or even need a new complex `CrashRpt` feature to be implemented, we will be happy to help. 

|| *Service* || *Cost* ||
|| Accidental support^1^ || $25 ||
|| One month support subscription^2^ || $99 ||
|| New feature implementation || Hourly^3^ ||

^1^ - this support service provides you with two hours of custom consulting that can be used by you to ask questions or have bugs resolved.
^2^ - this support service includes one month (30 days) of custom consulting that can be used by you to ask questions or have bugs resolved.
^3^ - the cost depends on the feature.

== I have a question or need help. What do I do? ==

Please contact us using the E-mail address below. You can ask your question or ask for help in the E-mail, and if we are able to answer the question and/or provide you the help, we send you a `PayPal` invoice. As soon as you pay, you receive the support services.

== I want a new `CrashRpt` feature to be implemented quickly. What do I do? ==

You can hire the guy who maintains `CrashRpt` to implement the feature you want. You can control what the developer does through [https://kb.odesk.com/questions/1158/What+is+the+oDesk+Team+application%3F oDesk Team] application and pay on hourly basis. Please contact us using the information below.

== Contact Us ==

Please use the E-mail address below to contact the support. Please specify what is your question and what support service type you would like to have.

E-mail: zexspectrum@gmail.com