#summary Tutorial on how to contribute a language file.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

== Internationalization Support ==

*Since v.1.1.3* CrashRpt supports multi-lingual user interfaces. You should place a valid
language file named *crashrpt_lang.ini* to the directory where *CrashSender.exe* file is located in order to make CrashRpt work properly. The language file is a text document in UNICODE format and having INI extension. The language file contains localized strings used by CrashRpt dialogs.

If your software supports several languages, you can distribute several language files with your software. On install, rename an appropriate file to *crashrpt_lang.ini* and copy it to the folder where your *CrashSender.exe* is located.

You can download a language file from here http://crashrpt.googlecode.com/svn/lang_files/ 

Each language file has the `CrashRptVersion` field that stores the version of CrashRpt you
can use this language file in. If you try to use a language file with a wrong version, the *crInstall()* will return an error.

For example, assume you want to download the English language file for CrashRpt v1.1.3. Browse for `lang_files->1.1.3->crashrpt_lang_EN.ini` (shown below).

{{{
- lang_files
   - 1.1.3
       crashrpt_lang_EN.ini
       crashrpt_lang_RU.ini
}}}

If there is no language file for your favourite language, you can contribute one. Also, if you see that there are some mistakes in an existing language file, you may want to improve it and then contribute your changes. 

== Contributing a Language File ==

If you want to translate a language file to your native language, you may do the following. 

First of all, decide what CrashRpt version you want to prepare the language file for. Download an appropriate language file for the CrashRpt version you decided and for the language you know well. It would be easier for you to translate from such language.

Open the language file using *notepad*. It is strongly recommended that you use notepad for editing to avoid unexpected problems with encoding.

You can see that the language file is a regular text file. The file has several sections enclosed with [] symbols, e.g. [Settings], [MainDlg] and so on. Each section contains a group of named strings. Strings are stored as *StringName=String value* pairs.

Below there is a fragment from the beginning of the English language file for CrashRpt v1.1.3:

{{{
[Settings]

AuthorName=John Brown	
AuthorEmail=jbrown@gmail.com
Language=English
RTLReading=0
CrashRptVersion=1103

[MainDlg]
DlgCaption=Error Report
HeaderText=%s has stopped working
SubHeaderText=Please send us this error report to help fix the problem and improve this software.
WhatDoesReportContain=What does this report contain?
ProvideAdditionalInfo=Provide additional info about the problem (recommended).
YourEmail=Your E-mail:
}}}

The *[Settings]* section contains some configuration parameters.

- The *AuthorName* string should contain your name. It can be empty.

- The *AuthorEmail* string should contain your email. You may store your email here so we
will be able to contact you if we have some problems with your translation. This parameter
can be empty.

- The *Language* string should contain the language name. This parameter is used to determine what language you are translating to. This parameter is required.

- The *RTLReading* string should be equal to 0 for left-to-right languages (for example, English) and 1 for right-to-left ones (for example, Hebrew). This parameter is required. If it is set to 1, window content is mirrored.

- The *CrashRptVersion* string must contain the CrashRpt version this language file can be used in. For example, if the file should be used in CrashRpt v.1.1.3, this parameter must be equal to 1103. You typically do not change the value of this parameter when translating from another language.

All other sections, such as [MainDlg] and [DetailDlg] contain strings that are used in CrashRpt dialogs.

Translate the right part of the string; the left part should not be modified.

Some strings contain formatting symbols, for example *%s* (string placeholder), *%%* (integer plaseholder) or *\n* (new line). These special symbols should be left as they are, do not remove them! 

When you are finished the translation, save your changes as a file named *crashrpt_lang_XX.ini*. Replace XX with an appropriate language abbreviation (EN and so on). Ensure your file has the .INI extension. In the *Save as type* field, select *Text documents (.txt)*. In the *Encoding* field, select *Unicode*.

Then test your changes by substituting the language file. Rename your file into
*crashrpt_lang.ini* and copy it to the directory where *CrashSender.exe* is located (the `bin` directory under the CrashRpt top-level directory) and run *CrashRptTest.exe*.

To contribute your changes, please leave us a message in our <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/crashrpt">Discussions</a> group. We will let you know how your changes can be uploaded. 
