#summary CrashRpt v.1.1b Release Notes.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

CrashRpt v1.1b contains a lot of improvements over previous version of CrashRpt. Below the list of changes is listed. 

This release has status 'beta' and is made available for public beta testing. We appreciate any user feedback, bug reports and feature requests.

= What's New =

Major Features:

- Removed support of Visual Studio 6.0 and added support of VS.NET 2003,
  VS 2005 and VS 2008

- New API functions (crInstall(); crUninstall(); crInstallToCurrentThread();
  crUninstallFromCurrentThread(); crGenerateErrorReport(); crExceptionFilter();
  crEmulateCrash(); crGetLastErrorMsg())

- Character set specific functions have A and W suffixes. Introduced macros for
  defining character set indepandent function names mapping

- Support of various C++ exception handlers (Visual Studio-specific)

- Crash report generation and crash sending functionality are separeted into 
  different modules (CrashRpt.dll and CrashSender.exe)

- New ways of sending error reports: using HTTP connection, using SMTP embed client or
  (as in 1.0) using Simple MAPI.

- Each error report is now assigned a unique CrashGUID

- Doxygen-based documentation system

- Revamped GUI of Send Error Report dialog

- New Error Report Sending Progress dialog

- Improved crash descriptor XML format


Minor features:

- Using TinyXml framework instead of MSXML

- Using the latest version (at the moment) of dbghelp 

- Using the latest version (at the moment) of zlib

= Requirements = 

- Windows operating system
- Microsoft Visual C++ .NET 2003, 2005, 2008

= Installing = 

Unzip the CrashRpt v1.1b archive to any folder, open index.html at the top level directory and follow the instructions in Installation page of documentation.

= Providing Feedback =

If you detect a bug or would like to request or feature, feel free to contact us at http://code.google.com/p/crashrpt/issues/list

