#summary Privacy policy template.

----
*NOTE:* This is a template of the _Privacy Policy_. It can be copied and modified by you as you wish and then published on your web site.   
----

= Privacy Policy Template =

==What information do we collect?==

We collect information from you when you send us an error report from *SOFTWARE NAME* program, hereinafter referred to as the "Software". 

The information includes:
  * Crash description XML file (crashrpt.xml) containing the basic information about the crash (Software name and version, resource usage parameters, your Windows version, your country and language). You may be asked to enter your e-mail address and short problem description. This information is also included into the crash description XML file.
  * Crash minidump file (crashdump.dmp) which contains technical information about exception in the Software (processor information, operating system version, process and thread information, stack traces for each thread, the list of loaded modules).
  * Desktop screenshot image file in PNG format containing the image of the Software's main window or the image of the whole desktop.
  * Registry key dump file that may contain the persistent settings of the Software.
  * *If your Software adds other files (for example, logs), list them here*

== What do we use your information for? ==

Any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways: 

  * To improve the Software (we continually strive to improve the Software based on the information and feedback we receive from you)
  * *If you use the information for other purposes, specify them here*
 
== Do we disclose any information to outside parties? ==

We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. This does not include trusted third parties so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses.

== California Online Privacy Protection Act Compliance ==

Because we value your privacy we have taken the necessary precautions to be in compliance with the California Online Privacy Protection Act. We therefore will not distribute your personal information to outside parties without your consent.

== Your Consent ==

By sending the error report, you consent to our privacy policy.

== Changes to our Privacy Policy ==

If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page. 

== Contacting Us ==

If there are any questions regarding this privacy policy you may contact us using the information below. 

* YOUR CONTACT INFORMATION*